There's so much information and so many
ideas flying around the world of sales
training these days particularly around
the basics.
And so I think that there are different
levels of basic right?
There's the real Basics.
Like how do you look someone in the eye
and shake their hand that's not what I'm
talking about.
I'm talking about real hardcore sales
training Basics.
We're going to assume that you're already
a human being who knows how to make eye
contact who knows how to smile and all
that.
I'm talking about what do you do to get in
front of your ideal prospects?
And what do you do once you're actually in
front of them to really maximize the
likelihood that you're actually going to
close the sale.
It's so important to get these little
pieces, right?
So in this video, I'm going to show you
the 11 sales training Basics that
beginners must Master check it out.
Number one what you've been told before is
wrong.
I promise you that this is the case
whatever someone has told you in the past
about what you should be doing in sales is
probably wrong now unless that person is a
really badass sales manager or sales
person who knows everything about selling
if you're just going based off what most
sales people think or what most managers
think are even quite frankly what.
CEOs think about sales that stuff is
wrong.
There is so much old school crap out there
that if you just commit to doing the
opposite of what most people are telling
you you're going to be way better off.
But of course, what you really want to do
is go so much deeper and understand
exactly what truly does work in selling
number to be the complete opposite of what
you think a salesperson is this builds off
of that first idea, which is that most of.
Of what the media and popular culture and
quite frankly our professions tell us what
a salesperson really is is wrong thinking
of the gregarious back-slapping funny guy
or gal as the archetypal salesperson is
just silly in today's world.
What makes an effective sales person is
someone who can read people who can follow
a process who can engage people in a
conversation using a systematic approach.
Being the opposite of what you think the
average sales person is is so key because
those people are actually hurting their
own sales number 3 talk is cheap most
sales people think that having The Gift of
Gab is the best thing that we can all have
when it comes to selling but the reality
is is that your prospects don't want to
hear you talk.
They don't care about you.
They don't care about your product.
They don't care about your company and
they certainly don't care about whatever
BS you or another.
Salesperson has to say about all of those
different topics combined into one what
they care about is solving the challenges
that they are dealing with right now so us
doing all this talking is just a waste of
time.
They don't care.
Well we need to do is engage them in a
conversation a two-way conversation where
they're seeing value that we're providing
but at the same time they're sharing
insight into what they most care about
get.
Prospects talking in a way that they're
really engaged in the conversation and
then you're going to start closing so many
more sales number for have a system as a
relatively newer salesperson.
One of the best things that you can do is
have a real selling system to follow if
you're just making it up as you go you are
shooting yourself in the foot follow a
systematic approach to selling whether
it's my Approach or someone else's
approach.
I don't really care but what I care.
You have a system.
Obviously you want to have a system that
has been proven to work in today's world,
but have that systematic approach so that
way you're not thinking next time you're
in front of a prospect.
What am I going to say next or what
question am I going to ask or jeez?
I wish I knew what I should be doing this
situation when you have a system, you know
exactly what you need to do.
Next number five.
Do your homework show your prospects
through personalization that you
understand who they are that you've done
your research.
Now this doesn't mean that before you make
every phone.
You need to do 25 minutes of research, of
course not at our company.
We have a team of people who do our
research for us.
And so that way we have it ready to go and
we don't actually have to do the research
but we're showing we did our homework, but
you want to know things about their
company you want to know things about
them.
You want to know about their background
about what they care about articles that
they've shared so many of the key ways
that you can do your homework are all
within LinkedIn ideally using LinkedIn
Navigator.
You can get so much valuable information
and insight on your prospects.
Just by spending a couple of minutes
really looking through their profile
understanding what they most care about
number six ask questions.
Now, of course not all questions are
created equal.
So it doesn't mean just ask any questions
but within a systematic approach you need
to be asking questions and you need to be
engaging your prospects getting them doing
the talking if.
You are doing all the talking in a selling
situation, which is quite often the case
for a lot of salespeople.
You're in trouble.
The data shows that top performing sales
people are doing a lot more digging are
asking valuable insightful questions to
determine whether there's fit ask more
questions number 7 don't be afraid to lose
sales.
I find that so many sales people are
terrified with the idea of losing a sale
and you know what?
It happens.
It's not a.
Deal, I lose sales any top performing
sales person loses sales.
It's not the end of the world and quite
frankly living in fear of losing a sale is
going to make you so much weaker so much
softer with a prospect and what you need
to be is you need to be completely
unafraid of losing a sale and when you're
actually unafraid of losing a sale your
prospect immediately feels it they don't
feel creeped out by a sales person who
clearly needs to close the sale and.
Pay their rent being unafraid of losing
sales is going to make you so much
stronger in your selling number 8 B appear
not a servant.
There are so many sales people that feel
like they need to put prospects up on a
pedestal what they're really doing is not
putting the prospect on the pedestal but
they're actually getting down and they're
bowing down like you would expect the
servant in a movie.
We need to be in a position where we see
ourselves as true peers to our prospects,
so.
Don't treat your prospects like they're
super special person and they need to be
treated like a god or a goddess instead
talk to them like a pier.
I mean don't be overly casual and callous
and curse and do these things necessarily
but you want to talk to them as if they're
just another person someone who puts on
their pants one leg at a time when you
behave like a peer to your prospects
prospects feel that.
It's disarming and it makes them more
comfortable being that peer not a servant
number 9 stop persuading your prospects do
not need to be persuaded to do business
with you.
What they need is a professional
salesperson who will determine whether
there's a.
. Your prospects either need or do not
need what you have.
There's no way to persuade someone who
doesn't need what you have to buy what you
have that's stupid.
That's just dumb.
It doesn't make sense.
Don't try to persuade your prospects to do
business with you instead engage them in a
conversation.
Ask them powerful youthful systematic
questions to determine what's going on in
their world.
What are the challenges?
What are the.
Concerns that they are having what are the
goals that are most important that they
accomplished when you get to those
questions and then weave in what it is
you're selling now, you never have to be
persuading someone or convincing someone
to do business with you doing business
with you is just going to be a natural
extension of them solving their problems.
Stop persuading number 10 always be
learning learning is a lifelong journey if
you stop learning you're in trouble.
And with sales so much is changing that
the second we stop learning.
We just immediately get ourselves into
trouble at our company.
We're always reading new books new
strategies implementing new courses new
ideas always be learning new ideas,
especially if you're relatively new in
sales.
You need to really Master selling if
you're here for real and you're doing this
in this is something that you are
committed to doing over the long term.
Always be learning read new books on
selling read new books on business.
Take courses educate yourself on your
craft.
Think about it.
If you were a lawyer you would have had to
go to three or four years of law school.
And then you have continuing education
credits in sales.
There's no such thing.
So it's on us to continually be learning
and getting better always be learning
number 11 never get comfortable.
Ever the second you get comfortable with
where you are is when you get into
trouble, I see this in the life cycle of
sales people all the time.
You see someone who comes out the gate and
they're actually doing really well and
then they start to make money and then
they feel really good and they start to
get comfortable.
And so what do they do?
They stop doing what it was they were
doing that got them to where they were and
then they get themselves into trouble.
We never want to get ourselves to the
point where we're super comfortable.
We always want to be a little
uncomfortable a little.
We're going to be looking over our
shoulder thinking okay, if I stop doing
what I'm doing, this is all going to fall
apart now.
I don't mean that in a way where we want
to be paranoid, but we never want to get
completely comfortable.
We want to constantly be pushing to be
striving to stretch outside of our comfort
zone to try things that we haven't tried
before the second we get comfortable is
the second that we start to get worse.
So there are the 11 sales training.
That beginners must master and if you
enjoyed this video that an awesome free
training on the data-driven approach to
help you crush your sales goals.
Just click right here to get registered
instantly.
There's a just click right here.
This is an in-depth training that will
help you close more sales at higher prices
all while generating more meetings.
Also, if you got some value, please like
this video Below on YouTube and be sure to
subscribe to my channel by clicking my
little face right here to get access to a
new video.
Just like this one each week.